Final Practice Solutions

1.(a) A higher-order function is one that takes a function as its
   argument and/or returns a function as its result.  A function is
   pure if its value depends only on its arguments, and it has no side
   effects.  We say a language supports "first-class" functions, if
   functions are treated as flexibly as primitive types, such as
   integers.

  (b) Advantages: We can transform programs using equational reasoning;
   program execution can be more flexible about evaluation order.
   Disadvantages: Data structures need to be (at least partially)
   copied rather than updated in place, which can make programs less
   efficient in time and space.

  (c) def threepeat(f): return compose(f,twice(f))
      def quard(f):     return twice(twice(f))
      def fivepeat(f):  return compose(f,twice(twice(f)))

2.(a) def sizeT(s):
       def f(s,a):
     	   if not s: return a
     	   else:     return f(s[1:],1+a)
       return f(s,0)

  (b) def fibI(n):		
	    a,b = 1,1			
	    while n > 2:		
	      a,b = a+b,a	
	      n = n - 1		
	    return a          

3. In the max macro, the selected operand is evaluated twice. If there
   is side-effect, it may produce a different result than the function
   version. In the select macro, either a or b is evaluated, while in
   the function version, both are always evaluated.

4.(a) "after the function returns"
  (b) x == 1

5.(a) There is a type error at line 9: x is an integer but is used as
   a boolean.
  (b) There is an initialization error at line 6: x is used before it
   is fully initialized  V it is initialized only in one of if's two
   branches. Compiler in general cannot reason on values.

6.(a) - An array length expression 'e.len' has type int if e has type
        array(t) for some t.
      - An array element expression 'e1[e2]' has type t if e1 has type
        array(t) and e2 has type int.  Semantically, this expression
        is undefined if e2  s value is negative or larger than e1.len.

  (b) - Array size needs to be nonnegative in array constructor
        expression.
      - Array bound needs to be checked for array element expression.

7.(a) Multiple methods in the same scope have an overload relationship
   if they have the same name and statically distinguishable parameters. 
   A subclass method overrides a base class method if they have an
   identical type signature. Yes, a method can simultaneously be in an
   overloading relationship with one method and an overriding
   relationship with another method.

  (b) i. overloading  
      ii. compiler
      iii. (1) compile-time error
		   (2) Base string
		   (3) compile-time error
		   (4) Sub string
		   (5) Base noarg
		   (6) Sub string

8.(a) F, T, T, F 
  (b) Operational, axiomatic, denotational
